do what we just did uh just in in Swift
UI this time so we'll leave this kind of
in the background so we have that uh to
go back to uh so let's do new uh project
uh so there's other things that you can
do new playgrounds we'll see as well uh
they're really useful little areas where
you can just execute some code um and
you don't have to worry about an entire
project uh package and workspace we'll
see later uh but yeah project is the one
that we want to create right now
and uh since we can with swift Pi let's
just pick multiplatform so we'll see the
other build targets that we we get
through that and as so we're always
going to pick just app uh as the uh as
the template here uh all right so uh
we'll call this one um Swift UI
demo and we leave all of this the same
the as you can uh tell now we don't have
the option of picking a language because
we picked um the multiplat form Target
which only allows us to do Swift UI uh
we do get other options for storage now
so we get core data and Swift data uh so
Swift data was introduced a year or two
years ago um it is on top of core data
um and it's designed to work really well
with swift UI um uh there are still uh
parody um I think there's some talking
in the background yeah uh there are it's
not there's no feature parody yet um so
core data still has capabilities that
Swift data does not have um I haven't
seen a company uh use Swift data yet I
mean they might be out there but um so
um industry is still a little bit
cautious here things might change uh
with a A lot of these new technologies
uh there's like flux there it changes
changes pretty frequently um so uh
eventually I think Swift data will be
very nice uh I will not teach Swift data
since I haven't seen it in the wild um
if you want to use it you're welcome to
um we as I said we will teach core data
and so when we're teaching core data
you'll see how awkward it is uh to use
um uh well some of it is is awkward to
use because it is older uh so it it does
work nicely with swift but there are
some some vestages there of of how old
it is uh so Swift data is trying to get
rid of all of those old smells um so I'm
excited for it but um again a little bit
too new I think to to cover in depth
here so core data uh you could choose I
don't actually want to use it right now
and uh so yeah those are the differences
um we have a different storage option uh
let's create this new project uh again
just on the
desktop and so let's keep both both of
these open here and let's just see
really briefly if I go back to the
project Navigator here so the projects
look different so um I don't think
there's anything that is the same as as
you can tell here assets uh assets yes
good point yeah assets is the same um
and uh so one thing that could be in the
Swift UI file uh that you find here is
the info file so info is
again an XML file so info.
pist uh so it's an XML file it is pretty
it's an old uh dictionary format so Json
would be a little bit more modern uh but
so yeah the info. pist those are
settings that your app um uh that the
buildt settings for your app uh we'll
see this a little bit later but um by
default the Swift UI project
uh still has one but it's implied in the
project file so we again we'll see this
later um but yeah very different uh
structure and uh so yeah the place where
we wrote code here content
view uh sorry view controller is not
even here um it opened up to this place
where it looks like we have some code uh
called content View and again let's give
ourselves a little bit more space here
um and I'm going to hide all of these
things for now okay so yeah very
different um let's let's achieve the
same thing that we did here we want to
be able to uh have a button that hides
uh and shows a label um we'll go over
what these are um in in a little bit uh
um or at a later point I just want to be
able to do the same thing
here um the content view here uh
describes our screen for us actually I
don't want to show that one so the
content view describes our screen and
just like in interface Builder we're
able to show what this screen would look
like uh but everything is nicer so if
it's not showing automatically for you
here so the second from the right button
um so this kind of like hamburger menu
has a canvas option so the canvas option
will build if you have if there's
previews for your file for your view
file it will build those previews um and
um sometimes they oh uh it is breaking
because I'm building to my Mac um you
have to you have to have a A Team
Associated uh or you have to have a team
selected which I don't think uh there is
one selected here
um uh but yeah so let we just not built
to the to the Mac right now let's pick
um my the iPhone 15 Pro again and the
canvas will update again so what what I
did here is um I I picked from from the
build targets that I have so we have
those those simulators again the new
thing that we have here is my Mac so I
can build a Mac app this way and uh so
my iPhone oh my iPad is still there as
as an unsupported device so yeah once I
pick so whatever I pick up here will be
the thing that gets uh selected for the
for the canvas here and so this is what
this view uh generates it's this uh this
screen here and there are two options
for intera for interacting with the
screen here so this is the
play uh action so you could kind of
navigate and click through things um and
then there's also this I'm going to call
it View building option so it's the
second one from the right and when you
select this one uh this is the closest
uh to what we've seen here uh in
interface Builder so here we can select
a view component so if I select the the
image here it actually highlights in my
code the code that generates this image
which is pretty neat if I click hello
world maybe uh imagine before I do it
what what should highlight so if I if I
click hello world it uh selects the uh
the text there and the other nice thing
is so if I have something selected I can
bring up the detail Navigator and it
gives me um options for for styling or
for for changing uh the the the
properties on here so um let's go maybe
to the to the hello world label and we
could change uh maybe a padding there so
let's maybe add some padding at the the
top and um let's maybe change it to
32 and so now we have a 32 top padding
there um if we want to and you see how I
still have the the label selected um it
now added the
padding uh code uh to the to the to the
code file here so whatever I do in the
in the view uh in this on this canvas if
I'm adding properties to it it updates
the code that generates that view which
is pretty neat um so you don't have to
deal with XML uh you just have uh the
whatever you see here gets gets
generated into code so you can you can
do either thing so you can write code
and it'll update the view so maybe I
want padding uh all the way around uh my
label um which I get by not providing
any uh anything for the padding there I
can also add maybe 32 to have a padding
of 32 again and my view updates which is
pretty neat um sometimes um the the
playback kind of breaks sometimes you
have a crash and it just doesn't update
sometimes it just takes too long to to
recreate what you you did there this is
getting better every year um so I when
first when this first came out I wasn't
really using it because it was just so
so fickle um this is now usable to me so
I started using uh previews again and
they're pretty neat uh if it if it
breaks sometimes you have to click a
little little button there uh but yeah
so it's it's pretty pretty usable now so
um pretty cool pretty cool thing there
yeah didn't
this were you
looking uh oh um I mean like so you
would you would write the text and then
you would build uh oh you would write
the write the code and you would build
oh every single time yeah but I mean
like also like the more you do this you
just know what what happens so uh uh but
yeah so you would I mean it goes for
smaller projects it goes really fast so
you write something so I hit command R
right now the first time it takes a
little bit
longer um wait oh yeah here you go so so
yeah let's let's make a change let's
maybe just come back
okay that sounds like the light is out
now okay let me pause the